[SDCI] Add execution time feature for Gitlab (#23709)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/glossary/terms/pipeline_execution_time.md

---
title: pipeline execution time
core_product:
  - ci-cd
---

> Pipeline execution time is the amount of time a pipeline has been running jobs. For example:
> 
> {{< img src="ci/ci-execution-time-example.png" style="width:75%;" alt="Pipeline execution time" >}}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline execution time is the amount of time a pipeline has been running jobs.
```

> In this case the execution time would be 3 minutes 30 seconds. The pipeline has 3 jobs: Job A, B and C.  The first 2 minutes both A and B are running so it counts towards execution time. The next 30 seconds B is still running so it also counts. Then, there is a gap until C starts running so the execution time is not increased during this period since there are no jobs running. Finally, C takes a minute, making the execution time a total of: 2m30s + 1m = 3m30s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider a pipeline with 3 jobs: A, B, and C. During the first two minutes both A and B are running, so those two minutes count towards execution time. The next 30 seconds, A stops while B is still running, so that time also counts. Then, there is a gap until C starts running, so the execution time is not increased during this period since there are no jobs running. Finally, C runs for one minute. The final execution time calculation is 2m30s + 1m = 3 m30s.
```

> This metric is available at pipeline level only under the name `ci.execution_time`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This metric is available at the pipeline level only under the name `ci.execution_time`.
```

---
title: pipeline execution time
core_product:
  - ci-cd
---
Pipeline execution time is the amount of time a pipeline has been running jobs.

> For example, consider a pipeline with 3 jobs: A, B, and C. During the first two minutes both A and B are running, so those two minutes count towards execution time. The next 30 seconds, A stops while B is still running, so that time also counts. Then, there is a gap until C starts running, so the execution time is not increased during this period since there are no jobs running. Finally, C runs for one minute. The final execution time calculation is 2m30s + 1m = 3m30s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, consider a pipeline with 3 jobs: A, B, and C. During the first minute both A and B are running, so those one minute counts towards execution time. The next 30 seconds, A stops while B is still running, so that time also counts. Then, there is a gap of 5m until C starts running, so the execution time is not increased during this period since there are no jobs running. Finally, C runs for one minute. The final execution time calculation is 1m + 30s + 1m = 2m30s.
```

The "two minutes count" can easily be misinterpreted if you misread the beginning. Let's simplify it by only using one minute where A and B run

Author: I prefer to leave it as 2 minutes and then 1 minute since then it is more "asymmetric". Beceause if it is 1 minute then a gap and then 1 minute it might be harder to connect the dots IMO

Author: Here is the drawing I did:
![image](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/assets/124577199/a4ed311d-707d-4e4c-aaa8-5fdc45fbecc5)

Reviewer 2: > I prefer to leave it as 2 minutes and then 1 minute since then it is more "asymmetric". Beceause if it is 1 minute then a gap and then 1 minute it might be harder to connect the dots IMO

I understand. Let's reduce C to a 15s run so we can keep A+B on 1m

I am really concerned that reading fast people will understand "Ok A and B counts for 2 minutes so they sum parallelized work"

Author: Okey that works

> This metric is available at the pipeline level only under the name `@ci.execution_time`.

Reviewer 2: it would be great to add a similar sentence for https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/glossary/terms/approval_wait_time.md and https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/glossary/terms/queue_time.md

Author: Yeah there are a lot of glossary terms we could improve
